Our 5th TaxonWorks Together event (21 - 23 May 2024). Join us for 3 days of activities centered around building the [TaxonWorks](http://taxonworks.org) community, highlighting what's new, what's changed, and what is on the horizon. Some activities will be highly guided, some information style, and some unconference style. These activities are open events and _Your feedback and contributions will make a difference._ Learn from those using TaxonWorks in their taxonomic and digitization workflows. See demos of powerful new ways to query and update data and new interfaces for managing biological associations, i.e. ways to explore and extend digital specimens. See examples of community-building around complex goals of curating data on some of the World's most hyper-diverse taxa. Hear about TaxonWorks' companions, software, people, and data that extend the core functionality and use of the software. For example TaxonPages is a new open-source code base that produces, well, taxon pages, see how its producing well over 100k pages for the Species File Group. Get the broader perspective at special sessions that move beyond TaxonWorks to look at the role of taxon pages and how the practices behind taxonomic descriptions and biodiversity informatics might evolve.Hear about where TaxonWorks can be improved, and what the challenges behind those improvements are.

As always, we invite new audiences to join us to gather insights for tailoring future directions.

_Expect lots of opportunities to ask questions, meet others, and to contribute the conversation._
